System Requirements
===================

This document contains high-level system requirements for the ESP32 Template project.

.. req:: ESP32 Hardware Platform
   :id: REQ_SYS_HW_1
   :status: approved
   :priority: mandatory
   :tags: hardware, platform

   **Description:**
   The system SHALL operate on ESP32 microcontroller with 4MB flash memory.

   **Rationale:**
   ESP32 provides WiFi connectivity, sufficient processing power, and adequate flash memory for IoT applications.

   **Acceptance Criteria:**
   
   * AC-1: System boots successfully on ESP32 WROOM-32 or compatible modules
   * AC-2: Flash usage does not exceed 90% of available 4MB
   * AC-3: System operates within ESP32 memory constraints (DRAM/IRAM)

.. req:: WiFi Connectivity
   :id: REQ_SYS_NET_1
   :status: approved
   :priority: mandatory
   :tags: network, wifi

   **Description:**
   The system SHALL provide WiFi connectivity in both Access Point (AP) and Station (STA) modes.

   **Rationale:**
   Enables web interface access and network configuration flexibility.

   **Acceptance Criteria:**

   * AC-1: System creates WiFi Access Point for initial configuration
   * AC-2: System connects to existing WiFi networks as station
   * AC-3: Automatic fallback to AP mode if STA connection fails

.. req:: Web-based Configuration
   :id: REQ_SYS_WEB_1
   :status: approved
   :priority: mandatory
   :tags: web, configuration
   :links: REQ_SYS_NET_1

   **Description:**
   The system SHALL provide web interface for configuration and monitoring.

   **Rationale:**
   User-friendly interface for system setup and operation without firmware recompilation.

   **Acceptance Criteria:**

   * AC-1: Web interface accessible via HTTP
   * AC-2: Configuration changes applied without firmware recompilation
   * AC-3: Real-time monitoring of system status

.. req:: Non-volatile Configuration Storage
   :id: REQ_SYS_CFG_1
   :status: approved
   :priority: mandatory
   :tags: storage, nvs, configuration

   **Description:**
   The system SHALL persist configuration settings across power cycles using ESP32 NVS (Non-Volatile Storage).

   **Rationale:**
   Maintains user settings and system configuration permanently.

   **Acceptance Criteria:**

   * AC-1: Configuration survives device reset and power loss
   * AC-2: Factory reset capability restores default settings
   * AC-3: Configuration corruption detection and recovery

.. req:: Component-based Architecture
   :id: REQ_SYS_ARCH_1
   :status: approved
   :priority: mandatory
   :tags: architecture, modularity

   **Description:**
   The system SHALL implement modular component-based architecture following ESP-IDF conventions.

   **Rationale:**
   Enables maintainability, testability, and reusability.

   **Acceptance Criteria:**

   * AC-1: Components provide well-defined APIs
   * AC-2: Components are independently testable
   * AC-3: Main application coordinates components without tight coupling

.. req:: Error Handling and Recovery
   :id: REQ_SYS_REL_1
   :status: approved
   :priority: mandatory
   :tags: reliability, error-handling

   **Description:**
   The system SHALL handle errors gracefully and attempt recovery where possible.

   **Rationale:**
   Ensures system reliability and user experience.

   **Acceptance Criteria:**

   * AC-1: Component timeouts handled without system crash
   * AC-2: Network connection failures trigger automatic retry
   * AC-3: System logs errors for diagnostics
   * AC-4: Watchdog timer prevents system hang

.. req:: Memory Management
   :id: REQ_SYS_PERF_1
   :status: approved
   :priority: mandatory
   :tags: performance, memory

   **Description:**
   The system SHALL manage memory efficiently within ESP32 constraints.

   **Rationale:**
   Prevents memory leaks and ensures stable operation.

   **Acceptance Criteria:**

   * AC-1: Heap usage monitored and bounded
   * AC-2: No memory leaks during normal operation
   * AC-3: Stack overflow protection for all tasks
   * AC-4: Dynamic allocation minimized in time-critical paths

.. req:: Emulator Support
   :id: REQ_SYS_SIM_1
   :status: approved
   :priority: mandatory
   :tags: emulator, qemu, testing

   **Description:**
   The system SHALL support build-time selectable emulator mode (QEMU) that replaces hardware-specific modules with simulator implementations while preserving public APIs.

   **Rationale:**
   Enables development and testing without physical hardware, improves reproducibility and CI test coverage.

   **Acceptance Criteria:**

   * AC-1: Kconfig option ``CONFIG_TARGET_EMULATOR`` enables emulator builds
   * AC-2: Simulator implementations selected by CMake without requiring code changes
   * AC-3: Simulator components implement complete public API of hardware counterparts
   * AC-4: Emulator build runnable under QEMU with console output
   * AC-5: Documentation provides build/run verification steps


Traceability
------------

All traceability is automatically generated by Sphinx-Needs based on the `:links:` attributes in each requirement.

.. needtable::
   :columns: id, title, status, tags

.. needflow:: REQ_SYS_HW_1
